{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red251\green2\blue7;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c14913\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12880\viewh15540\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 General Instructions
\f1\b0 \cf3 \ulnone \
\
Where is my .vdi file located?\
\
\cf2 /sgoinfre/students/lvogelsa/\cf3 \
\
How to retrieve the signature of a machine\'92s virtual disk (MacOS)?\
\cf0 \

\f0\b \cf2 shasum *.vdi
\f1\b0 \cf0 \
\
\cf3 Check if the two signatures are identical:\cf0 \
\
diff <eval_vid_file.txt> <signature.txt>\
\
\

\f0\b \ul Project Overview\ulnone \

\f1\b0 \
\cf3 How does a virtual machine works?\cf0 \
\
A virtual machine (VM) is a computer file that behaves like an actual computer. The VM is partitioned from the rest of the system, meaning that the software inside it can\'92t interfere with the host computer\'92s primary operating system (OS).\
\
\cf3 Choice of operating system and why?\cf0 \
\
An operating system is the low-level software that supports a computer\'92s basic functions. I have chosen Debian, because it is recommended for new system administrators. Other advantages are that it is user-friendly and supports many libraries, filesystems and architectures. \
\
CentOS, in contrast, is more complicated to install and update but offers more enterprise features.\
\
\cf3 What is the purpose of virtual machines?\cf0 \
\
For example, to try out a new operating system, accessing virus-infected data, running an old application by installing an older OS, or running software or apps on operating systems that they weren\'92t originally intended for. The benefit is that VMs are independent and don\'92t interfere with the host computer\'92s OS.\
\
\cf3 What is the difference between aptitude and apt?\cf0 \
\
They are both tools that handle package management, including installation, updates, removal, etc. Apt is a lower-level package manager and restricted to the command line only. Aptitude is a higher-level package manager, vaster in functionality than apt, and has a text-only interactive interface with the option of command-line operation. \
\
\cf3 What is AppArmor?\
\
\cf2 AppArmor is a Mandatory Access Control (MAC) system on Linux to confine programs to a limited set of resources. It allows the system administrator to restrict programs capabilities like network access, raw socket acmes, and the permission to read, write, or executer files. It is installed with Debian by default and can be checked using 
\f0\b /usr/sbin/aa-status
\f1\b0 .\
\

\f0\b \
\ul Simple Setup\ulnone \
\

\f1\b0 \cf3 1. Follow log-in prompts.\
\
2. Check that the UFW service is running:\
\

\f0\b \cf2 sudo ufw status\
\

\f1\b0 \cf3 3. Check that the SSH service is running:\
\

\f0\b \cf2 sudo service ssh status
\f1\b0 \cf3 \

\f0\b \cf2 \

\f1\b0 \cf3 4. Check that the operating system is Debian or CentOs:
\f0\b \cf2 \
\
uname -a\
cat /etc/issue.net\
cat /etc/*_version (for Debian version)\
\
\
\ul User (Intra Login)\ulnone \
\

\f1\b0 \cf3 1. Verify if the user exists:
\f0\b \
\
\cf2 getent passwd <username>\cf3 \
\

\f1\b0 2. Verify if the user is part of a group:
\f0\b \
\
\cf2 getent group <groupname>\
\
\
\ul User (Password Policy)\ulnone \
\

\f1\b0 \cf3 1. Create a new user:\
\

\f0\b \cf2 sudo adduser <username>
\f1\b0 \cf3 \
\
2. Verify if the user exists:\
\
\cf2 See above.\
\
\cf3 3. Check password policy:\cf2 \
\
sudo chage -l <username>\
\
\

\f0\b \ul User (Group)
\f1\b0 \cf3 \ulnone \
\
1. Create a new group:\
\

\f0\b \cf2 sudo addgroup <groupname>
\f1\b0 \cf3 \
\
2. Assign new user to new group:\
\

\f0\b \cf2 sudo adduser <username> <groupname>\
\

\f1\b0 \cf3 3. Verify if the user is part of a group:
\f0\b \cf2 \
\

\f1\b0 See above.
\f0\b \
\
\

\f1\b0 \cf3 How to set up password rules on a virtual machine?
\f0\b \cf2 \
\

\f1\b0 You can configure password age policy by editing login.defs (
\f0\b sudo vi /etc/login.defs
\f1\b0 ) and changing the values for PASS_MAX_DAYS, PASS_MIN_DAYS & PASS_WARN_AGE.\
\
You can configure password strength by editing common-password (
\f0\b sudo vi /etc/pam.d/common-password
\f1\b0 ) and adding specifications after \'93password     requisite     pam.pwquality.so     retry=3\'94.
\f0\b \

\f1\b0 \cf3 \
What are the advantages of this password policy?
\f0\b \cf2 \
\

\f1\b0 Passwords provide the first line of defence against unauthorised access to your VM. The stronger a password (policy), the more protected your VM will be. 
\f0\b \
\
\
\ul Hostname & Partitions\
\

\f1\b0 \cf3 \ulnone Check the hostname:\cf2 \
\

\f0\b hostnamectl\
\

\f1\b0 \cf3 Change the hostname:\

\f0\b \cf2 \
hostnamectl set-hostname <new_hostname>\

\f1\b0 With 
\f0\b sudo nano /etc/hosts
\f1\b0 , change the current hostname to the new hostname
\f0\b \
\

\f1\b0 Restart VM with 
\f0\b sudo reboot\
\

\f1\b0 \cf3 View partitions:
\f0\b \cf2 \
\
lsblk\
\

\f1\b0 \cf3 What is LVM and how does it work?\
\
\cf2 LVM stands for \'91Logical Volume Manager\'92  and can be thought of as dynamic partitions, meaning that you can create/resize/delete LVM partitions from the command line even while your Linux system is running. \
\
\

\f0\b \ul Sudo\
\

\f1\b0 \cf3 \ulnone Check that sudo is installed:\cf2 \
\

\f0\b dpkg -l | grep sudo\

\f1\b0 \
\cf3 What is the value of sudo and how does it operate?\cf2 \
\
Sudo stands for \'93super user do\'94 and it allows you to temporarily elevate your current user account to have root privileges, for example, to access restricted files and operations. So, if you run a Linux command with the prefix \'93sudo\'94, it will run that command with elevated privileges. It is considered the most user-friendly and safest way to elevate privileges. \
\
\cf3 How were the rules of sudo implemented?\cf2 \
\
Sudo can be configured by creating/editing a file in /etc/sudoers.d/. With the command 
\f0\b sudo cat /etc/sudoers.d/<filename>
\f1\b0 , you can see the configurations.\
\
\cf3 Verify that the /var/log/sudo/ folder exists and that it has at least one file in it:\cf2 \
\

\f0\b sudo ls /var/log/sudo/
\f1\b0 \
\
\cf3 Read the contents of the command log file:\cf2 \
\

\f0\b sudo cat /var/log/sudo/<filename>\
\

\f1\b0 Delete the file and after running a few more sudo commands, the file should have been updated.\
\
\

\f0\b \ul UFW\
\

\f1\b0 \cf3 \ulnone Check that ufw is installed:\cf2 \
\

\f0\b dpkg -l | grep ufw\
\

\f1\b0 \cf3 Check hat ufw is working properly (i.e., is active) and list its active rules:
\f0\b \cf2 \
\
sudo ufw status \
\

\f1\b0 \cf3 What is UFW and the value of using it?
\f0\b \cf2 \
\

\f1\b0 UFW, or uncomplicated firewall, is a front end that provides a user-friendly framework for managing netfilter and a command line interface for working with the firewall. For example, you can use to allow/block incoming and outgoing connections from the server - such as ports, IP addresses or entire subnets. 
\f0\b \
\

\f1\b0 \cf3 Add a new rule to open a port:\
\

\f0\b \cf2 sudo ufw allow <port_id>\ul \
\

\f1\b0 \ulnone Check that the rule has been added by checking ufw status. \
\
\cf3 Delete this rule:\
\
\cf2 Check the number of the rule that wants to be deleted with 
\f0\b sudo ufw status numbered 
\f1\b0 and then use 
\f0\b sudo ufw delete <rule_number>
\f1\b0 .\
\
Check that the rule has been deleted by checking ufw status.\
\
\

\f0\b \ul SSH\
\

\f1\b0 \cf3 \ulnone Check that ssh is installed:\cf2 \
\

\f0\b dpkg -l | grep ssh
\f1\b0 \
\
\cf3 Check that ssh is working properly (i.e., is active):
\f0\b \cf2 \ul \
\
\ulnone sudo service ssh status\ul \
\

\f1\b0 \cf3 \ulnone What is SSH and the value of using it?
\f0\b \cf2 \ul \
\

\f1\b0 \ulnone SSH, or Secure Shell, is a network protocol that gives users a secure way to access a computer over an unsecured network. It provides strong password and public key authentication, as well as encrypted data communications between two computers. It is also widely used to manage systems and applications remotely, enabling them to log in to another computer over a network, execute commands and move files from one computer to another (e.g., GitHub).\
\
\cf3 Check the ports that SSH is running on:\cf2 \
\

\f0\b sudo grep /etc/ssh/sshd_config
\f1\b0 \cf3 \
\cf2 \
\cf3 Use SSH to log in with a user:\cf2 \
\

\f0\b ssh <username>@127.0.0.1 -p 4242
\f1\b0 \
\
Follow authenticity prompts.\
Trying to log in with root will result in a \'93Premission denied.\'94 message.\
\
\

\f0\b \ul Script Monitoring\
\

\f1\b0 \cf3 \ulnone What is cron?\
\cf2 \
Cron is used to schedule jobs within software environments, known as cron jobs, to run periodically at fixed times, dates, or intervals. It typically automates system maintenance or administration or makes it useful for things like downloading files from the internet and downloading emails at regular intervals. \
\
\cf3 How does the script work?\cf2 \
\
It defines multiple variables and stores information regarding architecture, CPU, etc. and then prints it with wall.\
\
\cf3 How to set up and configure a cron job?\
\cf2 \
By 
\f0\b sudo crontab -u root -e
\f1\b0 , you can edit the cron job with the format */min hour day_of_the_month month day_of_the_week /path_to_file.\
\
\cf3 How to stop cron jobs from running?\cf2 \
\

\f0\b sudo service cron stop\
}